Hello, I'm Michael Krasowski from Pluralsight.
I will be presenting the module summary and final words in the course
Practical Team Management for Software Engineers.
Now, remember our story from the overview module?
Well, let's recap.
Okay, there's my boss and there is me.
Hey,
I think you've been doing a nice job and I'd like you to manage a team for me,
maybe about five developers or so.
I will need you to work with the customers,
figure out and document requirements,
determine your software development lifecycle,
standards, architecture, manage your work tasks,
you know, tie everything to the business,
you know, come up with all the team management stuff you think you need and oh,
by the way, you start tomorrow.
I was only 26 and didn't know squat about the things I needed to manage my new
team and I'm wondering if you reflected in the same way.
You've come through this course and I appreciate that very much and I
hope it's been very helpful and productive for you.
And there you are,
confronted with all the challenges of management and leadership.
What are you to do?
So, maybe you have been confronted or challenged by the same situation,
you know,
being presented with opportunities that weren't directly related to
software engineering or software development.
They were management-oriented,
leadership-oriented and all those other things we've talked
about in all the modules of this course.
You probably thought, wait a minute, what just happened,
what did they just ask me to go do?
Do I even want to do that?
I really love software engineering and building and constructing software.
Not sure if I can align the activities to the business,
not sure I could hire and fire and things like that.
Can I even be a manager?
Do I want to be a manager?
Will people follow me?
Will I be a good leader?
And can I just do the job in general?
So, if you had any of these feelings,
I'm hoping that some of them have been mitigated with the
template approach that I've given you, the very practical,
prescriptive approach of this course.
So, based on what I was asked to do by my boss' boss' boss,
I thought for a while and concluded that I needed two key critical
skill groups of expertise to succeed in my new role.
The first is leadership and communication skills.
These would include verbal skills, written skills,
interpersonal skills and leadership skills.
By the way,
all of those are covered in one of my other courses title
Leadership and Communication Skills for Software Engineers and
you might want to check that out.
The other key skill group is practical team management
skills which of course is this class. So, let's do a quick recap of the course modules.